small visual bug fix
disable adsb sua and clean up of sua info
added USB out autopilot
fixed plate tagging
removed coarse location
10.2.7
10.2.6. updated help.
Merge pull request #489 from apps4av/JohnW4SBA-patch-Help2

Update help.html
Update help.html

Thanks to lots of excellent work by Sam Hoskins, I was inspired to potentially mess that work up by editing it with my own "improvements" since he's on vacation. Presumably before this replaces the in-app Help, he and others will review it further. Even if it's added as-is after ensuring it doesn't somehow mess up the app, I'm confident it's a major improvement on the inconsistent and error-ridden file that has evolved in the years since a last full review. I'm burnt out, and probably won't find time to edit again in the near term. So feel free to munch away at it yourself. I'm going to try attaching Sam's Help-2 file that I've edited.
Merge pull request #487 from shanelenagh/aa_2.0

Audible Alerts 2.0
Added try/catch blocks around free-form preferences, for safe defaulting and execution continuation upon bad user input
Added Ludicrous Fast speaking speed
Restored old (but compile-failing) unit tests, along with Gradle dependencies they had
Removed dead code from audible alerts changes
New unit tests for audible alert changes, paricularly low-level message parsing
  and Json-serializing of new fields
Tweaked ADSB Ground Traffic Display preference verbiage
Shortened "within" sound clip a bit
Added new Alert Speaking Rate/Pitch feature
Changed from (the ICAO standard of) "decimal" to (the FAA standard of) "point" for decimal distances
Setting default for ADSB ground traffic display on location view for true (current system behavior)
Corrected and cleaned up some ownship vertical speed code
Some cleanup (removed 2 dead methods, and access-restricted another)
Added missing preference glue for new number format preference
Another pref verbiage conciseness change (for smaller screens)
Style, var naming, and commenting, with one access modifier restriction to private
Several preferences cleanup items (text conciseness/clarity, and defaults)
Changed label of pref to plural for consistency with others
Optimization: Move retrieval of ground traffic display properly outside the loop
Broke out numerical format from distance callout, as it applies to seconds as well (having nothing to do with distance)
Made invocation of audible alerts far more efficient in cases of multiple traffic items by passing only the new/updated traffic data, not forcing iteration through the whole traffic cache every time when no other traffic changed
Made closing alert cancel entire alert if ultimate "closing time" is found to be 0 (previously it left an odd remnant of "within x miles" even though seconds alert was cancelled due to being 0)
Adding filter for alerts that are to a traffic object with a callsign that matches the configured ownship callsign/tail #
Made distance callout description more concise, to allow to fit better on pref's screen
Merge branch 'aa_2.0' of github.com:shanelenagh/avare_audible into aa_2.0
Micro-optimization (yes, I know) and cleanup
Micro-optimization (yes, I know) and cleanup
A few micro-optimizations (yeah, I know): 1.) properly use the volatile keyword, and 2.) replace if-else with switch where possible in enum conditionals
Numerous optimizations and tweaks: 1.) much smarter wait/notify synch logic, proven through logged testing; 2.) memory optimization (data structure conversion from LinkedList to ArrayList to minimize Node references with delayed GC); 3.) fixed mandatory wait time between alerts and fixed bug with calculating true runtime of audio clips
More optimization of thread wait/notify synch; one preference spelling correction
1.) Added new full callsign traffic ID option (with new/refactored preference to support it), and 2.) several small optimizations (factored down method sizes to support inlining and ART native compilation, a smarter producer notification when alerts are running, etc.)
Moved var setting that was causing ref issues with lambda, prevending GC
Restoring chirp file that was incorrectly removed
Moving synch code to outside of traffic handler loop, to prevent repeated synch acquisition overhead, and updated one method name for consistency
No reason this variable (set once) can't be final too
Put in default for vspeed to indicate not available (e.g., IO data interfaces other than GDL90 that do not have it)
Only retrieve closing alerts preferences if needed (small optimization)
Fixed a couple preference titles, and optimized preference retrieval in main traffic handling loop
Tightened up the 'at' audio
Added some comments on the new 'cylinder' checks for the base audible alerts, as well as the (possible) enclosed closing/TCPA alerts
Made critically close alerts respect the mininumum alert separation (750ms) as well, to keep alerts distinct and clear
Final (FLW) alert queue fairness tweaks, and two audio file fixes
New sound samples--somewhat muted (pop filter was too aggressive), but better than previous
Baselining latest WIP, including preference re-org (everything but new audio ready for PR)
Changing audio stream ident to notification, to give separate control over this volume vs. music (per Jeff Ross)
Ungroomed AA 2.0 WIP (got colloquial alerts working, with added supporting audio files)
Removed erroneous comment that I put in (thought it was there from upstream)
Various fixes and changes to add vertical velocity in alert calculation, as a WIP for providing inner 'cylinder' of incursion for TCPA closing event alerts
Made CE method final, for performance (and should not be overriden anyway)
Fixed bug in new number-speaking method, and adjusted UT's to cover it
Snapping WIP of AA rewrite using shorter clips, and several fairness and code refactoring/re-architecting items
Pushed sound sequence duration logic to new method on soundPlayer; also, allow it to account for different playback speed, if that constant is ever changed or added as a config
Minor cleanup and refactoring
Increase accuracy of closing (TCPA) alert by subtracting time to speak the alert clips prior to the "# seconds" section to give a more accurate time to CPA
Added mininum speed audible alerts preference (and fixed one bug with knots conversion since new constant introduced)
Added preference (defaulted to false) to selectively enable ground traffic in audible alerts, using newly exposed boolean of airborne status in traffic object; some post-upstream cleanup/factoring of audible alerts class as well
Avare-371 (https://github.com/apps4av/avare/issues/371): Have ADSB message parsing pull "is airborne" bit from GDL90 message, and use it to drive a configurable display setting to show/hide ground traffic
removed runway bitmap sizing as it was crashing the app.
release 10.2.4
fix to ownship as some GPS receivers will not send icao.
10.2.3 release
Stop bug fix in audible alert. 10.2.2.
Merge pull request #477 from apps4av/revert-469-logger

Revert "Logger"
Revert "Logger"
improved weather color, release 10.2.1
Update AudibleTrafficAlerts.java

fix a crash in audible alerts
ownship fixes for traffic. added detection of own icao
fix merge
Merge pull request #476 from apps4av/improve-adsb

improve traffic cache
Merge branch 'master' into improve-adsb
fix to audible alerts
Merge pull request #473 from shanelenagh/master

Adding audible traffic alerts feature
Made base handler called by view spawn an async thread, to further minimize UI impact of feature being enabled
A number of reversions of aa branch changes to produce a minimal pull request, and clean up some inadvertent changes (and some intentional ones, like the danger altitude config)
Added critical setting of location to traffic cache in storage service, and fixed a label capitalization issue
Further organized audible preferences, and adopted standard TCPA term, with explanations, in preference test for 'Closing Alerts'
1.) Made max alert frequency (per ICAO callsign) a preference, 2.) organized all audible alert preferences better, in a single screen
Removed superflous negative closing seconds check, since forcing it to abs value
A couple comments, both for explanation and one to give proper source credit
Changed metadataretriever scope (and method that used it) to allow for proper cleanup and mem management of its resources
Two optimizations for initial feature sound load time
Update AudibleTrafficAlerts.java

Should be final too
Various CRC and scoping changes, as well as some general cleanup
Removing some old cruft (from previous testing) in the mainline Avare code
Synchronizing shutdown around alertQueue, the monitor object for all of the other synch and notification
Various thread and resource safety/memory improvements, as well as some other minor cleanup
Added critical % chirp feature and preference config, as well as some style and safety cleanup items
Added more (up to 30 seconds) of closing time audio
Added copywright+disclaimer, and basic class Javadoc
Several style updates, some CRC refactoring, and maybe 1 or 2 material concurrency/sychronization safety enhancements
Massive fix/cleanup of the sound player thread architecture and design--uses Android handlers for start and stop, nearly completely freeing up UI thread
Sound player changes that use Androids Looper thread runner, to eliminate
  UI delays with using Thread sleep and the soundpool overtaking the main
  thread for the duration of the alert sequence
Numerous optimizations to the alert update loop
Added measured distance to audible alert class
Added test for small distances on location after time method
Fixed two egregious bugs in the closing time method, as well as the UT's
  the colluded to allow them
Little style items
'Final' (current) version of SoundPool-based audible alerts, for now.  Threading might be optimized in a later release
SequentialSoundPlayer WIP
SoundPool conversion WIP
Adding up to 20 seconds of closing alerts audio
Completed addition of closing alerts preferences
Removed old debug print statments
Beginning of closing time config
Moving closing time alert to start of audio alert, to allow for warning
before location is announced
Various IDE and style cleanup items
Changing immutable and interface media datatype to List, rather than array
Adding all GPWS audio files for landing alarms
Adding 'over' audio prefix when closing seconds is more than the 'seconds' audio numbers available
Adding audio files for later dev work
Fixed closing seconds min/max boundary bug, and add UT's to confirm fix
Several dependency upgrades to get all legacy tests to compile
Fixed bug in seconds array min/max logic
But for prefs and more 'seconds' audio files, feature-complete version of 'closing time' audible warning
Wip of closing event code, without audio
Fixed major, stupid bug in point-over-time method, and added UT to confirm fix
Adding latitude-dependent longitude difference to closest approach time calc too, to similarly account for earth's curvature
Added locationOverTime func, with some accomodation of variation in lon location change due to circular nature of earth
Adding start of "closing time" (not the bar song) change--only time part and UT's for now
Cleaned up preference label for conciseness
Simplified interface to audible alerts instantiation and state menagement
Refactored to pull most all new audible alerts code into single class (CRC)
Made labels for audible settings readable without scrolling on smaller devices
Trimmed high altitude, to prevent awkward delay
Downsampled (bitrate and channels to mono) audio files for space efficiency
Full, high-quality audio sources for clock positions, high/low/level, bogey/traffic, and phonetic alphabet id's
Clean up
Adding phonetic Id (though audio not yet updated), Top Gun "bogey" lingo mode, and various cleanup items
Audible alert code cleanup and formatting
Cleanup: 1.) added thread name for easier tracing, 2.) moving code to logical places, 3.) commenting and naming cleanup
Made sequential media player use monitor object (using the alert queue) to allow more immediate notifation of play completion
Using Thread.interrup/isInterrupted to control runnable flow, per Java
concurrency best practices, rather than a gating boolean (Goetz 2006, et. al.)
Allowed for new traffic information to update alert queue before it has been
played, rather than forcing it to wait to be played and updated on next cycle
Closer to a fair, threadsafe traffic alert structure (but you know what they say about 'close'--only in horshoes and darts...)
1/2 fixed (still isn't fair for multiple-traffic reports) a synchronization/concurrency
issue with reports getting shouted on top of each other; will address fairness
(using fair general semaphore, or the like) in a later commit; also
fixed some non-private declarations, and added in "o'Clock" to the call,
as originally intended
Consolidated and micro-optimized variables in great circle distance formula and a bearing method
Added Top Gun style clock position and high/low/level position indication to audible alerts
Made audible alerts distance and altitude proximity danger distance configurable in preferences
Removing Google services dependency that is not ostensibly needed, and presents issues for build, debugging, and deployment to phone hardware
Finished adding preference for audible alerts to preferences screen
First rough WIP of traffic audible alerts (still cruft to remote and things to refactor)
fix location bugs
improve traffic cache
bug fixes
Merge pull request #471 from apps4av/replace-service

stop bug fix. 10.1.9
stop bug fix. 10.1.9
Merge pull request #469 from apps4av/logger

Fixes to cache logger messages until the view is created
Merge pull request #470 from apps4av/replace-service

Replace service
added user drawing save
memory and cpu optimizations. moving obsracles outside service singleton and removing threads in it. fixes to tools screen for tracks delete and scroll.
more cleanups
plate centers and more cleanup on service
bunch of cleanup
more storage cleanup
removed Storage service
10.1.8
Merge pull request #468 from apps4av/cleanup_location_view

Cleanup location view
If we don't have the view for display yet, then cache the message. Several startup log messages were getting discarded. Once the view has been set, display all of the cache.
Merge pull request #467 from apps4av/BTFix

Clear out the "lastconnected" value when the connection is DISconnected.
more cleanups
more cleanup
clean up of airport info dialog
Clear out the "lastconnected" value when the connection is DISconnected.
clean up of airport info dialog
added the latest usb serial library.
removed writing
Merge pull request #465 from apps4av/wx-on-find

Wx on find
fixed write
Merge pull request #464 from apps4av/LoadApproach

Load approach
Clean up the shape drawing
Move the drawing of the "directTO" and "plan" shape to the TrackShape object out of the general base Shape object.
Optimizations and cleaning.
There is the the possibility of a "future" track being the same as the current or prev track, as would be the case if an approach came in from a VOR, then the missed approach goes back to the same VOR, or a VOR used in a procedure turn. This can result in the "current" leg being displayed by one in the wrong color. This situation can be handled by cycling through the list twice and drawing them in 2 passes. This problem is most relevant when a VOR approach is loaded into the flight plan and activated.
When resolving an approach plan, the "most recent" cache should not be used. This could lead to an airport being selected as the waypoint instead of the VOR. The ACT VOR/DME 32 "ACT IWOHO IWOHO" is an example of where it would fail to parse correctly.
added wx on find screen
Merge pull request #463 from apps4av/KML-revert-time

revert time and added flush to write
Merge pull request #461 from apps4av/write

able to write now
revert time and added flush to write
able to write now
added google services dummy json file
fixed drawing when zooming
Merge pull request #458 from apps4av/distTDZ

New status field "Distance to Touchdown Zone". If we're on an active …
10.1.6
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
  Increase in max zoom
  Stop bug fix
  Preferences can be exported / imported / deleted
  3D center button fix
New status field "Distance to Touchdown Zone". If we're on an active approach and the runway is known, the distance from the "current location" to the touchdown zone can be optionally displayed.
Merge pull request #456 from apps4av/platesWork

Plates approach elevation
Merge pull request #457 from apps4av/adsbTargets

Add a new display field to show how many ADSB targets we are tracking.
Add a new display field to show how many ADSB targets we are tracking.
No need to wait for the base lookup to finish before setting the name.
Had to add a comment about what CIFP means.
When parsing a procedure name string, only append the "-" if there is no C/L/R suffix to the runway number.
Add VSI to plates page. Parse ALT info from produres.db and set in approach flight plan.
10.1.5
Merge pull request #454 from apps4av/deleteKMLGPX

Delete kmlgpx
Merge pull request #455 from apps4av/GPXAltParse

Gpx alt parse
When getting a directory contents, pass the filter recursively.
Refresh the external plans & waypoints after import/delete actions
bug fix when invalid elevation
Ability to delete user defined waypoints and plans in GPX/KML format
Parse Elevation from user defined waypoint files
fix GPS simulator
Auto connect of various equipment on start
Merge pull request #453 from apps4av/TracksDir

Move tracks back to "files" area from cache
Move tracks back to "files" area from cache
Merge pull request #452 from apps4av/improve-ptz

Improve ptz
improve ptz, ready for merge
auto start wifi listening
more fixes to PZ
fix to android permissions based on OS version
more bug fixes
Merge branch 'master' into HEAD
BT bug fixed. 10.1.3
Add bluetooth connect permission to manifest
removed external multitouch
more fixes
more fixes
jumpy map fix
general better behavior
general better behavior
general better behavior
new ptz
10.1.2
Merge pull request #359 from vancinad/master

Added waypoint ID to "Delete Waypoint" dialog.
Merge pull request #450 from lyusupov/master

'white-list' few more of USB ACM devices
'white-list' few more of USB ACM devices
Merge pull request #449 from apps4av/emailtracks

Emailtracks
Minor tweak
Minor tweaks as a result of testing. Change status msgs to be clearer
Expose file permissions and shared file provider
Restored the emailing of the KML tracks file ability after android changes to force protected storage
removed Save due to space constraint
Added move navigation buttons (Save and CSUP) to chart popup and Search
10.1.2, up target to 32, and added ability to delete tracks and data
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
No need for the BTOutConnection.java file
Merge pull request #448 from apps4av/integrate-io

Integrate io now houses bluetooth autopilot handling
Autopilot functionality moved to the IO tab
Move autopilot code over to the bluetooth IO module
bug fix for 10.1.1.
10.0.1, moved import/export, null pointer bug fixes, portland tac merge
Merge branch 'apps4av:master' into master
Merge pull request #446 from apps4av/445-add-portland-tac

Adding Portland TAC boundaries and download location
Adding Portland TAC boundaries and download location
10.1.0
Merge pull request #443 from apps4av/106-change-udp-port

[106] changed port to 4000
[106] changed port to 4000
Merge pull request #442 from apps4av/merge-faa

combined file and faa
combined file and faa
Merge branch 'apps4av:master' into master
Merge pull request #434 from shisheng-1/Modify_GRADLE_1

Improve GRADLE build Performance
Merge pull request #441 from apps4av/integrate-io

Integrate io
fixes to play and BT out connection. Still need Ron's fix to Out
final integration complete.
integrate satellite ativity with io
final integration
added missing files
more integration. ui is integrated
more integration
added everything except code
briefing now self contained in app. no browser needed
removed acra and added firebase crashlytics, analytics
Improve GRADLE build Performance
import / export data scoped access
scoped storage happy code. now sd cards are not supported
stop bug fix and shape file memory optimization
Merge pull request #425 from BradWalker/update_tests

Get the tests running again..
Merge pull request #430 from reddn/patch-1

Adds a leading "0" when adsb targets that are 9 hundred feet or less from current pressure altitude
adsb traffic altitude now shows in two digits 

leading "0" is added to make it always display 2 digits for altitude of other traffic
Update help.html
fix crash bug. 10.0.7
10.0.7
added chart legend
glide ring fixes
removed coarse location as it interferes with NMEA
fix 2 crash bugs
add add/delete/insert to weather db
10.0.6
plans can be deleted now
10.0.5. backed out weather translate changes.
wac and area plates will not expire. fixes for weather. 10.0.4
fixes to weather file
fixed email of KML files
added external plates - my plates
Get the tests running again..

A lot of bugs are coming in and it would very helpful if Avare was able to use
automated means for testing. This should help increase code quality and decrease
bug reports.

Some tests will still fail and those will be fixed individually.
10.0.3
screen orientation crash fix.
shows altitude diff in 100s of feet now
removed legacy import of user data, added option to draw traffic as circles.
tabs to spaces
tabs to spaces
10.0.2 trial
added ability to upgrade user databases
plates tags now in user database
bug fix where UDW change was not showing in sim mode. changed file seprators from "/" to File.separator.
bunch of refactoring to clean up legacy names of external and internal folders.
added GCJ compile for Cycle.java
added cycle check code.
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
change of plate tagging function. more general purpose now
rm unused files
gametfr added more stadiums
new radar script
new radar script
new radar script
Merge pull request #419 from BradWalker/remove_unused_imports

Removed unused imports.
10.0.1 fix for checklist crash
Removed unused imports.
release 10.0 to store.
minor text changes
fixed to lists and wnb delete and load
remove app reset, added permission message.
asking for permissions at start. this makes things more predictable.
GPS security exception added
checklist and wnb overwrite now
Moved recents to user database. Now there are only two folders, internal and external. They both come from Preferences. Internal is maps folder, external is downloads folder. User can change them. Lots of clean up of legacy code under stringpreferences.
move checklists, wnbs, and plans to a database outside the app folder using contentprovider
added foreground service and declared GPS use as required by store
9.0.3. fixed nexrad speed
removed game tfr download
added timer for nexrad 500 ms
fixed ondestory
9.0.3. storage changes for tracks.
some dead code removal regarding storage service
sd card android 10 flag added
fixed ACRA, some SD card changes, game tfr database read disabled.
9.0.2
fixed various bugs including weather in breifing
fixed plan presentation and added altitude
date fix. 9.0.1
accounting for true wind direction from metar winds for plan
bug fixes in Cifp and wind correction with station wind in destination
9.0.0
start approach from current position : cifp
removed background service as this causes complaints from users. flip side is the app will take longer to start and GPS may be lost.
8.1.2
fix null pointer exception
added moving nexrad
improved glide profile to include surface winds
separate out wind calculation using metar
fixed to show all takeoff minimums
8.1.11
8.1.10
fix a crash bug
glide profile fix, GNGGA, and 8.1.9
nmea listener deprecated. tool version forced to 29 by google store.
8.1.8
add airspeed for verify
next release
made glide profile a distance ring
added glide profile
Merge pull request #415 from fredmon3/flight_plan_buttons

Add back inadvertently removed button text
added reset preference
by default app now starts with "leaving running in backgorund" off. updated google backup help
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
removed google drive backup and added app backup agent
Update README.md
added server weather scripts
added server scripts for weather
added server scripts for weather
added gairmets
fixed weather products
Add back inadvertently removed button text
backout code for rubberbanding PR
Merge pull request #397 from jackwilliard/Issue372

Closes #372
Merge branch 'master' into Issue372
Merge pull request #396 from jackwilliard/Issue368

Closing issue $368
Merge pull request #370 from jackwilliard/planning

faster flight planning edits
Merge pull request #403 from ryk346/rubberbanding

Added navaids and reporting fixes to mid-plan rubberbanding
Merge pull request #385 from IanJSeattle/master

Modifying ICAO flight plan generation to work with non-ICAO airport identifiers
Merge pull request #399 from BradWalker/cleanup_javadoc

cleanup Javadoc mistakes..
Merge branch 'master' into cleanup_javadoc
Merge pull request #412 from BradWalker/cleanup_remaining_javadoc

Cleanup the remaining errors with Javadoc.
Merge pull request #411 from BradWalker/cleanup_copyright

update copyright header..
Cleanup the remaining errors with Javadoc. No more Javadoc errors remain
after this.
The copyright header is not readable. This change updates the copyright header
so that it is now readable and presentable. Nothing other than indentations.

Added: SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
as this line tells machine processors this code follows a particular
license.
Cleanup a bunch of misc. Javadoc mistakes..
Closes #372

This is a requested user feature.

Addresses the issue that ICAO codes were called decimal, although they are hexidecimal.  The summary in the preferences field is confusing.

Addresses the issue that user input is not capitalized in the preferences and FAA form. The form is already capitalized on submission, but this is not apparent to the user.

An additional class very similar to an existing class was added to match the existing Android interface.  Note: this interface is deprecated.
Closes #368

The current preferences lack a persistent value ofr other info. Users request this capability to handle additional FAA required information.

This commit adds a preference that persistently stores "other info" box for the user.
Closes #374

The current UI lacks a definative description of what this toggle does.

This adds a better description for the user.
Merge pull request #391 from BradWalker/clean_unthrown_exception

cleanup exceptions that are never thrown
Merge pull request #392 from BradWalker/cleanup_redundant_if_statements

cleanup redundant if statements..
Merge pull request #393 from BradWalker/cleanup_html_errors

Cleanup several HTML errors
Merge pull request #394 from BradWalker/cleanup_misc_issues

Cleanup a bunch of small minor issues..
Cleanup a bunch of small minor issues..

1 - Aircraft is the plural form
2 - should use .equals() on strings, not object comparison
3 - minor Javadoc cleanup
Cleanup several HTML errors.. There are still several so it needs someone with
more HTML knowledge than I.
A bunch of if statements are redundant and could be simplified. Android Studio 4
has an inspection mechanism that finds this.

For example, this

        if(diff > expiry * 60 * 1000) {
            return true;
        }
        return false;

can be made into this

        return diff > (expiry * 60 * 1000);
Merge pull request #389 from BradWalker/cleanup_unneeded_semicolon

Remove a bunch of extraneous semicolons..
Remove a bunch of extranious semicolons..
These methods never throw a SAXException exception. Therefore, remove
the exception.

Should make the code cleaner and the VM able to do better optimization.
Merge pull request #388 from BradWalker/clean_unused_imports

Removed imports that are unused in the source code..
Removed imports that are unused in the source code..
Updating the code which sets up the ICAO flight plan to properly deal with non-ICAO airport identifiers
Added navaids and reporting fixes to mid-plan rubberbanding
Merge pull request #361 from emaiannone/refactoring/aDoctor

Refactor Member Ignoring Method smell in FisGraphics class
Merge pull request #362 from BradWalker/update_tests

Update the framework so that tests now execute.
Merge pull request #379 from apps4av/HonoluluInset

Adding Honolulu Inset.
Update NetworkHelper.java

Fix bug in cycle first date of 2021
Adding Honolulu Inset.
changed ADSB traffic circles to arrows. Re-add conus
8.1.7
navaid preferred over fix in airways now
8.1.6. Crash fix in search. Distance track fix for ADSB traffic
removed CONUS ADSB for 8.1.5
8.1.4
draw both conus and local, do not filter bitmap for nexrad, scale fix for nexrad
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
clearer code for nexrad block to lat/lon
Makes it easier to edit flight plan by sync'ing text box with graphical plan.

See Issue#367
Merge pull request #369 from apps4av/SearchRecent

Bug #363. Allow named GPS points to be searched for when creating plans.
Bug #363. Allow named GPS points to be searched for when creating plans.
8.1.3 release. position retained on chart flip
now traffic draws for all, not just on screen
Update the framework so that tests now execute.

All tests pass except for the following tests (to be fixed in a future check-in)

- LocationViewTest
- WebAppPlanInterfaceTest
Refactor Member Ignoring Method smell in FisGraphics class
Added waypoint ID to "Delete Waypoint" dialog.
Merge pull request #351 from EQXTFL/master

Fix for small message buttons on Pie+.
Merge pull request #348 from sergeant-wizard/android_x

Migrate to androidx
Fix for small message buttons on Pie+.
8.1.2
migrate too androidx
Merge pull request #345 from apps4av/AFD

Rename AFD to Chart Supplement.
Merge branch 'master' into AFD
Merge pull request #347 from apps4av/FontSize

Font size
Better fix for a prior crash if the BT name comes back NULL
correct an exception handled case to return a non-scaled font size
Allow 7 sizes of font scaling
Remove OK button from field selection
Clean up all the codescan warnings in infolines. Revert tab font back to system and slightly adjust size smaller than status lines - looks better.
Add a configuration option to allow the info lines and tab bar to have their font size scaled with respect to the "default" value as defined in the "dimens" file. This allows the user to accept a smaller font size, yet gain data fields in the top two status lines without having to change the device global font settings.
Rename AFD to Chart Supplement.
fix for nearest airports, 8.1.1
Merge pull request #343 from apps4av/btcrash

Btcrash
Bluetooth name can be null sometimes. Check that before adding it to our list.
GPS pings come in about once a second. Adjust the sleep time to 500ms to avoid wasting cycles. Also, do a sleep if the work queue is empty.
fixed links broken in FAA data
Merge pull request #340 from apps4av/FontChoice

Font choice
Remove the unneeded io activity from the manifest file.
Merge branch 'master' into FontChoice
Merge pull request #339 from apps4av/WAOptions

Remove duplicate entry of "24" from the winds aloft selection.
crash fix for 3d, crash fix for ahrs, roll reverse option for ahrs
Set the font face for the distance rings text to our custom one.
Remove the debug tab - included in error
Change our custom font to RobotoMono
Remove duplicate entry of "24" from the winds aloft selection.
Add helper method to make the font determination/creating. Adjust all the views to use this new method instead of creating the font directly.
Move the font selection setting to "UI Configuration"
Add new version of custom font LiberationMono
Add config item to chose between custom and system font.
Updating documentation associated with Stadiums.
Changing 'Game TFRs' to 'Stadiums', bug #334
8.1.0
Merge pull request #336 from apps4av/BTCrash

NULL check the name returned of the bluetooth device before using it.
NULL check the name returned of the bluetooth device before using it.
8.0.9
3.0.9
Merge pull request #335 from apps4av/InfoLines

Prevent a divide by zero crash if there is only enough room for 1 fie…
Prevent a divide by zero crash if there is only enough room for 1 field in the top status line area.
NULL check the name of the bluetooth connection before using it during the reconnect logic.
8.0.8
Merge pull request #333 from apps4av/Flyway

Adding Flyway charts.
Merge pull request #332 from apps4av/webp

Webp is the primary image format.  minSdkVerion=18. jpg images lowest…
Webp is the primary image format.  minSdkVerion=18. jpg images lowest in order and deprecated.
Adding Flyway charts.
removed IO tab and auto start of ADSB receiver
Merge pull request #331 from apps4av/gradleupdate

Update gradle due to deprecation and failed builds.
Updating deprecated dependency configurations
Update gradle due to deprecation and failed builds.
Merge pull request #330 from apps4av/BTAutoPilot

Added native support to drive an autopilot over a bluetooth connection.
Merge pull request #329 from apps4av/HelpUpdates

Spelling corrections and correct cdi/vsi pref location
Added help text about utilizing the "Early Passage" setting to smooth the autopilot turns after waypoint passage.
Add the bluetooth operation and configuration steps to the help file.
Added native support to drive an autopilot over a bluetooth connection.
spelling corrections and correct cdi/vdi pref location
foreground service permission. 8.0.7
release 8.0.6
crash fix by bringing service to foreground
8.0.5
added pitot static system of ilevil
changed pitch sign
added ilevil anagle of attack
check in missing files
added ilevil ahrs support
renamed WXB to FAA, moved start service code to oreo specific fix only
potential background service creation bug fix. added track line to plates
added favorites
fixed met color, border instead of text color
Merge pull request #328 from danothemen/master

Fixes issues 323,273
Fixed bug that prevented drawings from scaling on plates, closes issues 323,273. Also removed label pointing users to avare.openaircraft.com because it's a dead url
next release 8.0.4
fixed plates timer
added download of sectional with database for first time user
more sample w&b added
next release 8.0.3
removed screen brightness control, sms send, improved sigmet color
Update help.html

Unify name pronunciation of Avare with other sources.
Update README.md

Unify pronunciation of Avare name, mention Manual Install option.
added webp extension in getname, and release 8.0.2 with android 9 download issue fixed.
8.0.1 IO fixed.
fix to weather and pireps from FAA move
Correcting private server bug.
updated build target to 28, merged External IO app. Build 8.0.1
added option to use nmea altitude. 7.9.0
7.8.9
7.8.9. bug fixes
bug fixes. 7.8.8
change http to https
crash fixes in dialogs
fixed to AP before 7.8.6
fixed near. added looper.main to all handlers
bug fixes. 7.8.5
default A/FD images option, and hide menu on back press
bug fix in dims on some phones. 7.8.4
fixes. beta 7.8.3
added screen size to tile num determination because heap detection is failing on S7
removed lrucahce and used from support lib
track color changed to cyan for next leg in plan, changed from white
database transformation complete
moved over to content provider
moved over to content provider
total database overhaul to content provider
added game tfrs back in
fixed bugs in content providers
moved weather to content provider
moved some dbs to content provider
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
7.8.2
Merge pull request #314 from dark/master

Fix typo in w&b example
Fix typo in w&b example
wxb fixes
added w&b graph. 7.8.1
added W&B graph
added W&B sheets
remove airport diagram geotag database
added airport diag tags in file itself
added airport diag tags in file itself
fix typos
7.8.0
improved privacy layout, and improved permission ask order. 7.7.8
bug fix
changed registration method and permission ask sequence. 7.7.8
sdk cannot be downgraded from 23 to 19.
fixed more tests. bug in test
fix test, downgrade api
changed plan layout, auto change of layers on download. 7.7.7
fixed layers. 7.7.6
fixes to wxb
updated wxb layout
revised lists layout
improved weather in plan
added greenland shaded relief, moved weather to main app to remove browser dependency
removed dependency of chart types on file extensions
plates geotag ok for 1709.
plates comment/geotag added to match current process
7.7.4, comibned inet and adsb tfrs
fixed game tfr help
fix of crash bug in airway. fix of lmfs altitude type. added game tfrs back in. 7.0.3
readded plates tagging. 7.7.2
removed game tfrs
added a new server
added private server download option
build 7.7.1
release 7.0.0
Merge pull request #309 from pasniak/weather_briefing_html_fix

Weather briefing - fix html for proper rendering of sign plus (Heavy)
Weather briefing - fix html for proper rendering of sign plus ("Heavy") and proper rendering in Firefox (not closed <font> tags cause HTML engine to stop rendering (see: https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/846246 )
added tfrs from adsb
added airmets/sigmets from adsb
added SUA from ADSB
prep release 770
Merge pull request #304 from dark/patch-1

Fix punctuation in two strings from arrays.xml
Fix punctuation in two strings from array.xml
Merge pull request #300 from pasniak/fuel_planning

Test plan calculations and format winds aloft in Plan
Merge pull request #303 from dark/patch-1

Fix two typos in arrays.xml
Fix two typos in arrays.xml
fixed wxb time entry
Merge pull request #301 from EQXTFL/master

Added option to hide ADSB provided callsigns.
Updated option text for "Use ADSB Weather", as IO app is not required for every ADSB receiver.
Added option to hide ADSB provided callsigns.
tracks now start auto
fixed more tests
fixed test for GPS destination after change
update help with new gps coordinates format
changed ICAO format to simpler format for user ease of entry
added videos to help
Merge branch 'master' into fuel_planning
Format Winds aloft with 2 or 3 digits in Plan
Add test for plan operations
Merge pull request #298 from pasniak/fix_icao_waypoint_regex

Fix icao waypoint regex
Restrict ICAO waypoint coordinates parsing to valid ranges and add tests with long plans
Test fix: renamed Base to AIRPORT, Navaid to VOR/DME related to fix for #297, also removed duplicate tests
Merge pull request #296 from pasniak/additional_wpt_formats6

Add ICAO waypoint format with tests
Merge branch 'master' into additional_wpt_formats6
Merge pull request #293 from pasniak/fix_test_dependencies

Add test task dependency on merge*Assets
Merge pull request #294 from pasniak/add_location_view_test

Tests: add Location View Test
fixed test
fix for #297
Add ICAO waypoint format with tests to fix #283
+allow Copy-Paste in Plan Activity
Add test task dependency on merge*Assets

Note: assets error ("Font not found at") occurs due to a gradle bug
 see https://github.com/robolectric/robolectric/issues/2647
 and https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/37347564
Tests: add Location View Test
* test that long touch retrieves airport, info, sua, taf, metar, performance
* test accesses LongTouchDestination and uses LocationActivity without MainActivity parent
removed expedia
Merge pull request #287 from pasniak/tests_fix2

Fix WebAppPlanInterfaceTest failure by initializing ShadowedText lazily
Merge pull request #290 from pasniak/tests_fix1

Plan tests cleanup unzipped files after the test and show stack on Travis
Merge pull request #289 from pasniak/calendar_fix

Fix ETA ETE time and Destination update test by updating calendar wit…
Select merge#269 #291
Plan tests cleanup unzipped files after the test and show stack on Travis
Fix ETA ETE time and Destination update test by updating calendar with current time
Fix WebAppPlanInterfaceTest failure by initializing ShadowedText (which loads assets) lazily
fixed pr284 issues
fixed pr284 issues
Merge pull request #284 from pasniak/dest_tests2

GC/perf improvements and related Destination tests [take 2]
Merge branch 'master' into dest_tests2
Add Destination calculations tests.  Require Mockito and PowerMockito.
Speed up ETA ETE formatting, wrap Calendar in CalendarHelper to allow testing
added missing file and correct indent
Merge pull request #281 from pasniak/travis2

Run tests on Travis CI
Merge pull request #282 from pasniak/plan_tests

Test plan interface
fixes for data prep
Test plan searching and modifications
+ use robolectric to deal with AsyncTasks and simplify the test setup
+ use PowerMock (setup 1s faster than Mockito)
Set  Gradle Daemon VM maximum memory ("mx") allocated to the Java virtual machine
Run tests on Travis CI
Add Mockito and PowerMockito dependencies to gradle
Merge pull request #279 from spargonaut/master

JS - update the android buildToolsVersion to work with the latest ver…
JS - update the android buildToolsVersion to work with the latest version of android (Nougat 7.1.1); update the version for the android gradle tools in the travis file;
added png reader code
Merge pull request #277 from pasniak/travis

Add continuous integration in Travis CI
plates from FAA data. deleted tag activity. cleaned up code. will only run from release 1404
Add continuous integration in Travis CI
7.6.8
7.6.8
fixed 3d issues of constant reload, increase size of saved plan/list font
separate out obstacles database. fix for plan sequence of gps points # 271
Merge pull request #270 from pasniak/winds_aloft

Winds aloft with JUnit tests
split out afd and plate bitmap for newer plates
Winds Aloft: add more unit tests WindsAloftHelper, cover case of winds string with temps only ("+00")
Winds Aloft unit tests: split off HtmlAsserts to its own class
Winds Aloft: add more unit tests for full coverage of WindsAloftHelper
Winds Aloft: add unit tests
Shorten Winds Aloft: add WindsAloftAltitude array
Winds Aloft : Split out WindsAloftHelper class which formats WA as an HTML table
Shorten the list of Winds Aloft by displaying winds up to the level set in Preferences
3d fix with plate off edge issue, quicker loading, less memory, smaller area though
release 7.6.7
set large heap option, added back obstacles
cleared up destination
Add ELUS_HI.
7.6.6
updated wxb help
fix airmets
fix a delete bug in find
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
fix for issue 266
Merge pull request #262 from mrieker/master

update airport diagram georefs
update airport diagram georefs

...using data ending cycle 2017-02-02
add two more transparency levels
7.6.5
fixed afd over map instead of plate
plates also show over maps now. use layer feature Plate.
damp inclinometer, bug fixes. 7.6.4
added moving average to rates. fixed negative pfd tape on speed.
fix for near in emergency
improved PFD, and morse code. 7.6.3
fixed bugs in pfd
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
added morse codes for vors.
Update README.md
7.6.2
7.6.2
next release prep
added CDI to PFD
more complete PFD
added compass to pfd
better pfd
PFD optimizations
Added PFD, partial
added orientation interface
added trends
fix sign of variation
bug fixes. 7.6.1
fixed density altitude. 7.6.0
7.5.9 is identical to 7.5.6. Backed out all changes as users were reporting issues in Plan page.
download plate issue fix. 7.5.6
fixed crash bug in plates, fixed type of navaids in radials and less verbose language, added caribbean 2, fix perl coding bug recently added to nav.pl for variation.
Merge pull request #243 from pasniak/show_position_of_close_navaids

Show position of close navaids (added elevation)
show position of close navaids (add elevation)
Merge branch 'show_position_of_close_navaids' of https://github.com/pasniak/avare into show_position_of_close_navaids
7.5.5
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
fixed a bug where position:fixed in html will overwrite long press destination.
Update README.md
added test instructions
update gradle
7.5.4
fix to js args
move some things in merge for vor radials
Merge pull request #241 from pasniak/show_position_of_close_navaids

Show position of close navaids
Merge pull request #242 from xargsgrep/lock-button-group

keep button group locked in view when scrolling down
Update map.html

keep button group locked in view when scrolling down
Add Help section
Calculate VOR radials based on historical magnetic variation (3 new fields in nav table) + highlight VOR if too far + show (H) for HIWAS
(https://i.imgur.com/LTa1k3y.png)
fixed a crash bug
fixed google drive issue
show_position_of_close_navaids
Merge pull request #230 from pasniak/Take_ID_out_of_Metar_translation_routine

Take ID out of Metar translation routine; fix translation grammar and…
Take ID out of Metar translation routine; fix translation grammar and meaning of CLR and PRESFR
7.5.3
added rating dialog
change to colors match aviationweather.gov
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
change of met colors and color met text
Update LICENSE
Merge pull request #214 from stevecrozz/add-license-file

add explicit BSD 2-clause license file, changes to file will be made after merge
fix to reduce database queries
undesired behavior from testing 220 and 221 PRs, see the PRs for more details
Merge pull request #220 from tommywatson/savekmlonexit

Save KML if app closed with swipe
Merge pull request #221 from tommywatson/autostartkml

Add preference to auto start tracking
Add preference to auto start tracking
Save KML if app closed with swipe
7.5.2
Adding Caribbean1 sectional chart.
fixes for button transparency
fix to pr
fix to pr
added expanding spiral to map load
Merge pull request #218 from jamez70/TextMetarBranch

Choice between text METARs (showing VFR, MVFR, etc) and a circle. The…
Choice between text metars (showing VFR, MVFR, etc) and a circle. The circle now has a 1px black background to help it stand out
weather expiry 10 mins is too low. removed
button color change
Merge pull request #1 from apps4av/master

downmerge
7.5.1
new icons from google material
converted V-ways to Fixes based
reduced icon sizes for tabs, more tips, fixed help. 7.5.0
UI config added for removing/adding buttons
bug fixes, adjustments for tablets. 7.4.9
removed bunch of icons
removed bunch of icons
7.4.8
fix taf.
UI fixes. unused icons deleted
tablet button sizes. 7.4.7
7.4.6
more ui cleanup
bunch of ui changes, mostly related to how buttons look
fix for selectpicker on mobile. 7.4.5
JS argument fix. 7.4.4
removed fuel prices, and reviews. 7.4.3
replaced popout adapter in map view, ui change to webview
added missing files
bug fixes, disable autocomplete, added toasts, 7.4.2
fix of scripts link in html
7.4.1 bug fixed
fixes on 7.4.0 bugs
styled array fix
fixed last few issues. 7.4.0
changed weather to use bootstrap, and fix of errors in plan show
final ui change to list and plan before 7.3.9
html format correction
some fixes to plan, list layout
add explicit BSD 2-clause license file

Adding an explicit license file is helpful for people to see at a glance
which license a project is using. Github even has some nice bonus
features such as searching projects by license for people who opt in to
this LICENSE file convention.

I looked through the source code for this repo and the license pasted in
file headers appears to be the BSD 2-clause license
(https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause).

More info on LICENSE files at
https://help.github.com/articles/open-source-licensing/
changed UI of Plan.
changed theme to dark for night
list updated to use bootstrap, UI change
icao flight plan and change of ui in WXB
new gradle
fix a crash in emergency
1609 new plates
installable to sd card. 7.3.8
fixed 3d sim bug
fixed tab bug. added fuel burn
added terrain clearnace in 3d. 7.3.7
fixed LMFS brief email
fix in game tfr time
fixed emergency. 7.3.5
7.3.5
fixed game tfrs
label the game tfrs
added timed game tfrs
should not crash if not able to send SMS
added emergency button
add colors to AFD for easy viewing
traffic callsign separator
added missing script
fix in minimums find scripts
fix bug in data script
added game tfr downloading
7.3.4
fix bug in 3d
added gulf coast heli for 1608
changes for autopilot from Dean
Merge pull request #209 from pballer2oo7/test-test

Refactor Preferences boolean getters from shouldX to isX
fixes #174. some strings tidying.
starting on #174 and experimenting with github forking
load data in background on 3D task
drawing changes by Alex, BOD message for AP by Dean.
back to old gradle version
fix for position update bug introduced in 7.3.2.
7.3.3.
7.3.2
Merge pull request #190 from xargsgrep/map-long-press

Map long press. Merging, but there should be help on this. Its obscure. Maybe put it in startup tips.
bring up chart type spinner when on Map view and "Map" is long pressed
updating gradle version
cosmetic changes dbquery is a bad function name as it does not query db anymore.
re-add after backout of new touch
Revert to 141dbc6
last checkin before new multitouch backout
256 tile size option added
last check in before 256 charts
fixes from touch and added AI to 3d
Touch constants are not 3d constants.
Merge pull request #188 from r-oleary/use_native_multitouch

Use native multitouch
Merge branch 'use_native_multitouch_fixed' into use_native_multitouch
Revert "last commit before backout."

This reverts commit 743c18e4b1ce34800a46ebd718c070314f38d0ee.
Revert "reverted new touch"

This reverts commit 08c0dcac9ab1e0313ae5a8d234320734fc9cfe3d.
Attempt to fix up scaling and tile loading
Fix rotation panning on PlatesView
optimized scan line, updated help, zooming more in 3d
7.3.1
fixes in 3d, 7.3.1
added nav info to 3D
reverted new touch
last commit before backout.
Merge pull request #186 from r-oleary/multitouch_cleanup

Multitouch cleanup
Address structural feedback from ZK
Merge remote-tracking branch 'upstream/master'
Merge pull request #185 from r-oleary/auto_fit_plates

Auto fit plates
Change Plates and AFD View to auto-fit plates to screen and set the min scale to the auto-fit size
Cleanup
Update all the other views
Update gradle version
Fix up drawing
WIP commit
fix tips.
7.3.0
fixed flicker and position shift bug in 3D
some improvements in 3D draw
12 bits for elevation now
fixed bit sizes for transfering data to glsl
fixed bugs in 3d. 7.2.8
half memory use on 3d view
Merge branch 'master' into use_native_multitouch
Update views to use native multi-touch
fix of crash in 3d
fix of crash in info lines
added tips written by TR
5.2.7
fixed issues reported with plates button, crash, info lines 5.2.7
terrain shape fix.
7.2.5
reduced memory use for map
7.2.4
more fixes for 3d
plates track button separate from main button. moved stuff to opengl context
reduced memory use
cleanup of logs
7.2.3
7.2.3
fixed not showing charts on 3d
cleanup before tile sectioning
removed elevation task (hence agl and obstacles from map) and do not draw ownship
fixed obstacles
fixed AGL
fix for AGL calculation with new charts
cleaned up messages
modified formula for elevation
Draft of new elevation calculation.
new elevation tiles and fix of quantization
added obstacles
added own chart and center button for 3d
fixed oragami effect
removed elevation threshold bar. finalizing for release
fine tuning for first person
cleanup
corrected rotation matrix
added first person
build 7.2.3beta
added axis
three d ships with heading now
more fixes for camera angle for close ups
cull face
fixed bird eye view pan/zoom/tilt
fix in crash
removed unused files.
final touches before merge
connected traffic
connected real tiles
cleanup in ships
added rot to model
separate camera class
separate camera class
added camera
added camera
new working with some ships
added ships and texture map
added texture and ships
initial
3d from outerworld
2.5.2
icao address adsb filtering
fixed a crash bug, added estonia, added N number display for ADSB traffic
added israel and slovenia. 7.2.1
fixed projection for israel
charting for israel
Merge pull request #179 from cyoung/master

Use consistent values for Preferences.heightConversion.
Use consistent values for Preferences.heightConversion.
Update plates view to allow drawing
Basically working
Merge remote-tracking branch 'upstream/master' into use_native_multitouch
Save some testing history
fixed canvas rotation bug. 7.2.0
7.1.9
removed unnecessary getapplicationcontext() calls
removed all spinners from code.
added back tag button. added text to PG's link for plate verification
7.1.8. Fixed server name
added slovenia chart vfr
fixed a bug at BLM metar
fixed ADSB METAR related crash. Now 7.1.7
added more enroute charts
7.1.6
fixed altitude feet, added crash reporting library
fixed gps altitude. 7.1.5
fixed ADSB crash and altitude. 7.1.4
added SD card hard coded name to chart storage folder
7.1.3
metar map optimization
adsb fixes for altitude and conus.
fixed shape file load and removed airspace shape file download from apps4av
added airspace shape files
added tpc and moved terrain and topo to static folder
7.1.2
changed permissions asking method
fix for bug 170, delete of plates
7.1.2
added android permissions for marshmellow
fixed expiry of ADSB changed to configurable
preparing 7.1.1
added metar color map for adsb
added configurable fuel timer
added METAR color from ADSB
fixed float altitude for adsb traffic
fixed altitude display of adsb traffic. needs io 3.0.6 or above.
removed track pref. enable tracks record, ADSB now draws Nex over CONUS, added count up timer
more approaches with sorting
7.1.0 with ILS plates to plan. KML revert.
6.0.9 with western europe ONC
6.0.9
6.0.9 with western europe ONC
fixed issues in EU chart dims
Merge pull request #169 from raldred/europe_west_central

Europe West & Central
Europe West & Central
Merge pull request #168 from raldred/uk_ireland_iceland_onc

Added UK Ireland & Iceland ONC chart data
added UK Ireland & Iceland ONC chart data
7.0.9
onc added
charting scripts added for ONC charts
added ONC charts for sout asia and europe
changed kitepilot server name
missing class added
added approaches from CIFP, removed tagging button so it shows when plates password is set.
added plates geo-referencing code from Mike Rieker.
7.0.8 release with LRU cache moved in app, added help for marshmellow permissions. Removed sdk check for registration.
fixed zoom out issue
crash bug fix in gcdaemon and 7.0.7 beta
crash fixed in met shape. 7.0.6
 added 120 to data expiry time. release 7.0.5.
Modify flight plan leg colors to conform with industry specs:
WHITE - yet to be flown
MAGENTA - current leg being flown
GRAY - legs already complete
added altitude to planning
planning with wind now in simulation mode
wxb and plan now use simulation mode to fill all fields except altitude. added airplan / pilot preferences
added bunch of preferences for pilot/aircraft
things expire and vanish. things: tfrs, weather and their shapes
Merge pull request #166 from patricius972/master

Do the computation only when update() is called.
Do the computation only when update() is called.
mrged common code in metshape and tfrshape
Merge pull request #165 from patricius972/master

Draw TFR and Met shapes only when showing on screen
Cleaner code + comments
Draw TFR and Met shapes only when showing on screen
more cleanup in locationview class
massive cleanup in locationview class
Merge pull request #164 from patricius972/master

Optimization drawtile and drawshape
Optimize draw shape
draw all the lines at the same time
reuse offsetX and offsetY values.
Optimization on DrawTile
Reduced tile overhead to 20%, and release 7.0.4
more changes to drawing speed and removed race condition
Reduced tile overhead to 20%, and release 7.0.4
Fixed chart showing issues and clean up of LRU class tilemap
Fixed grey boxes issue.
fix bug for sync colors of center button
Merge pull request #157 from annerajb/kml2.2

Kml2.2
made center button reflect NU/TU. Fixed chart type not staying selected issue.
7.0.3
Merge pull request #162 from patricius972/master

TrackUp fix moving plate and rotating info lines.
TrackUp fix moving plate and rotating info lines.
removed center zoom because it is causing issues with multi touch controller
partial merge of plates rotation
Merge pull request #161 from patricius972/master

TrackUp Plates !
TrackUp Plates !
Merge pull request #159 from patricius972/master

drawing trackup
Map Trackup drawing fix.
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
center button now track/north up on long press
fixed jumpiness in charts on tab change
7.0.3
Layers now share bitmap to reduce memory. Better layout of download menu
Way to turn of layers
added METAR map. Some cleanup.
fixed radar expiry time and it does with expiry schedule in preferences
minor change to gdrive
fixed teleport to Kansas City, fixed Gdrive crash bug, moved around download items and added option to expire time.
Revert "merging avare trunk into my fork"

This reverts commit b62811a9f2ebd28e6470230e417bbb91c726511f.
KML 2.2 format support
Revert "Changed so cordinates are logged in a format that google maps can display track lines/ flight path."

This reverts commit 9e9c670f5dcf9737afacd91b95ad9486db17f7c0.
Revert "reverting change for debugging."

This reverts commit 7fc20895c0633cf6d4fedbc2d1b2249881e80bb1.
Revert "Removed loggin"

This reverts commit d71629cfe5199bfdb2401163d548e7a1eec87d05.
Revert "forgot the include"

This reverts commit 8136748f909d1dd7d9d641dcd076c331c82bfa92.
merging avare trunk into my fork
Merge remote-tracking branch 'apps4av/master'
forgot the include
Removed loggin
reverting change for debugging.
Merge remote-tracking branch 'apps4av/master'
Changed so cordinates are logged in a format that google maps can display track lines/ flight path.
Merge pull request #3 from apps4av/master

pull
7.0.2
Merge pull request #153 from patricius972/master

Add Pan Tracking, little optimization rotateCoord.
Merge pull request #2 from apps4av/master

pull
Add Pan Tracking, little optimization rotateCoord.
7.0.1
fixed radar
Merge pull request #1 from apps4av/master

pull from apps4av
moved out multitouch code
Merge pull request #152 from patricius972/master

Add TrackUp longpress and double touch functionality.
added Google Drive sync
Add TrackUp longpress and double touch functionality.

Signed-off-by: patrice <patnathanael@gmail.com>
Update streets.py
Update streets.sh
folder reorg
delete unused folder
added scripts for data prep
Fix for can topo, using polygons for missing chart names
Fix for can topo, using polygons for missing chart names
removed tiling name method, polygon method to be added later
all accounts now accepted
added extra CAN charts, and tiles without cycle in them
changed folder name for newproj
merge from NewCharts2
Remove references to Skyvector plan for now. The SKV site has changed the format of their flight plan string. Will re-add this text when I have a fix checked in.
5.1.0
added notams in plan
Add support for importing SkyVector created plans.
Update help to describe process.
Updating tile window size for higher memory, larger screen devices.
Merge pull request #147 from EQXTFL/master

Option for Distance Ring colors
Distance Rings sometimes look too similar to airports, this change allows to select a different color.
6.0.9
fixed our-ap issue, now our-ap data has low priority in list of found airports
fixed A/FD issue when it appears in many areas for same airport
6.0.8 release
6.0.8 release
6.0.8 release
increased timer button and text size
added canada ads
removed another eclipse file
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
deleted build folder
Update README.md
more changes
more changes
since google is moving all dev to Android Studio, Avare is moving to it.
added a fix for reported crash
Issue #141 - correct a time ring selection size
merged some suggestions from postalservice14, and sped up drawing
Merge pull request #137 from postalservice14/cap_grids

Comment improvements for cap grids
Fix spacing
Comment improvements for cap grids
6.0.7
dashed line looks ugly on cap grids. removed
final cleanup of CAP code, and test
final cap grid touches
Added cap grid fixed issue 105
html back to assets, in raw were giving issues
change SUA to show notes
When the KML tracks file is closed, tell the mediascanner to refresh the file changes.
show better use of resources in tools
fixed a crash related to choosing the green aircraft icon
added all airports show in near list
moved html in res from assets
6.0.6
Don't draw the CDI/VDI if its size has not yet been initialized.
crash bug fixes in CDI and in tile draw
Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/master'
fixed performance calculations
When in auto-orientation mode, the plan buttons were not displayed in the correct visibility state after rotating the device. Fixed.
changed/deleted bunch of icons, moved fuel and reviews
Mode the plan control buttons down so they fit on the smallest of screens when in Landscape mode.
6.0.5
Update help file with info for flight plan controls.
Flip the plan play/pause display icons for consistency.
Remove the activity reference from the location view - bad form.
simple compile fix
Modify the fuel timer to use the observer/observable design pattern - much cleaner that way.
6.0.5 beta prep
Defect #102. Added a fuel tank switch timer reminder.
Fix CDI rounding in display when close to waypoint
Add plan control buttons to chart display (optional)
Plan legs color coded (gray for old, green for current, magenta for future)
added area plate for canada
rubberabnding now depends on zoom level
mostly refactorying. now tracks disable shows dots.
added green aircraft
added green aircraft
one final change for new popout
back to the basics. layout changes for easier navigation
now area plates are stored in separate folder, and delete now delete AFD
misc. download and delete cleanups
fix for issue 122
made download failures more verbose
users can now submit ratings for airports
minor layout change for fuel
now user can select email of their choice
range checking the input, and added missing file
fuel price complete
various small bug fixes, and moved fuel into long press
Reduced enroute passage distance
changed asynctask to thread in map view
code refactor. some packages were getting too big
Merge code from head
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
added fuel cost get part
Defect #116- Add refresh ability to the plan list. This will reflect any changes made to the externally stored plans that may have happened via an outside app.
Defect #112 - no need to add a new image, code already handles the aircraft icon being null and will not display it. Add "None" selection to the configuration item "Display Icon"
Make the EdgeDistanceTape instrument less calculation intensive during the draw cycle.
sort crash bug fix. 6.0.4
disable draw button in TU. Plan change font
fixed GPS sim mode fly to dest
font chnages dynamically based on wp name length
added near aiport search in prefs for min runway length. 6.0.3
When in sensor mode, when orientation changes the CDI/VNAV were disappearing due to an invalid resize request.
Make the size of the VNAV and CDI displays based upon the size of the display area.
6.0.2
6.0.1
Correct a bug with CDI when following a flight plan. It was not tracking proper offset beyond the initial way point.
Merge pull request #110 from clementallen/master

Update README.md
6.0.0
fix in expiry calculation once again!
Update README.md

Added more information about the app including a link to install it from the Google Play Store.
added getting nav logs from LMFS.
Waypoints and plans don't need the description or altitude attribute.
Dynamically load the external plan waypoints at load time, and unload when told.
5.9.9 Fixed HTML innerText to innerContent. Added blinking screen.
fixed update of altitude in plates
release 5.9.8
rubber banding bug fix
fixes with angular adjustment to time in plan.
plan now flashes and also shows intermediate times
5.9.7
better weather color
Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/master'
fixed HTML name issues
Fix crash if the stored field settings are out of range of what we understand
5.9.6
fail safe input containing ' and " with converting plan input to uppercase
now federal airways added
better screen fit, bigger text
added code to find airways. VOTs removed
final integration with LMFS
5.9.5
Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/master'
better layout of plans and list
One more help tweak for plan
Remove help reference to "SHOW PLANS" button.
Updated the help area to include the new first/prev/next/last and filter buttons.
minor button changes in WXB
Limit plan display area to 5 plans.
Add First/Prev/Next/Last buttons to page thru plan list
Add Clear Filter to remove the application of a filter in one press
Fix plan DELETE action if no plan had ever been loaded
simple change
added WXB load and amend
ability to file with GPS coordinates, update help
Added help for trip
Added help for trip
fixed timeout in POST
5.9.4
catching exceptions in weather and fixed path
lots of error checking for LMFS plans and brf
fix bugs in WXB aircraft color
release 5.9.3 candidate
increase passage distance, fixed variation when plan is active
more changes to handle null returns
fixed errors in parsing of nas plans
Added briefing from WXB
One final touch before testing with LMFS
Errors processed better
color input of aircraft
Flight filing works.
move weather out of app into browser so it can be handled with graphics
in separate app space
disallow long press on web activities and fixed reported bug on add to
plan
If we attempt to delete the active plan, we need to first set is as inactive before deleting.
Add comment property to both external GPX flight plans and external GPX flight plan waypoints.
Add NavComments display area - used when an external flight plan is active and has comments.
Fix delete of external plan.
Pretty up the delete plan confirmation dialog
New plan page was not seraching for UDWs when creating a plan.
Various cleanup and refactor.
some fixes for hang bug when weather data is too much.
added help for lists
added help
now can move by clicking on screen
hangup fixed in all three JS activities.
sensor bug fix for list/plan reported by TV
replace JS confirm with dialog
complete move of WXB to WX
several bug fixes after moving FAA plan to WX
moved faa stuff in WX
5.9.2
minor change before beta
all states work now for filing, activating, closing, cancelling, and
list of plans
Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/master'
now can change plan states
Move the "Show Plans" button below the filter selection
ability to get plans from FAA
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
merging with plan
now filling route and success filing from the app
An external flight plan needs to be told specifically when it's enabled/disabled in order to load/unload display/hide the waypoint names.
Add the concept of a filter on the flight plan display to limit the number of plans shown.
show account on register button
Simple changes for plan filing
Added dialogs to plan activities.
simple change to fill dep dest
some rearrangement of plan and lists, change of colors, and added plan
form fill and clear.
now plans total shown in table
added storing LMFS plan
added JSON parsing to plan. Not tested yet
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
Plan filing changes
added more classes but JSON parsing is still not in.
Added external plans to the new plan handling.
Typo correction in traffic.
Added flight planning with LMFS. Remove flight planned before release in
plan.html till approved by LMFS
fixed a crash bug
max destinations in plan are now 50. plan algo now uses distance from final airport of intended landing as basis for passage calculation
the focus issue on 2.3.7 OS seems to be fixed now.
js now polls because of a bug in older android versions
One last activity where last fix applied.
fix on some phones that lose focus on webview and never get back. report
by TV, confirmed on old G-1 phone.
fixed cycle calculate date
minor fix for GPS crash
fixed a long existing plan simulate bug.
plans must be magnetic
some changes in text and made consistant
more widget rearrangements for plan/list
more UI efficiency improvement in Plan
minor fixes with plan. Timer updates the plan now because updating from
GPS can be trouble as GPS tick can be very fast
fixed plan bug.
lists working quite well now
final touches for list
finished create-plan
redid lists. lists will be compatible with last versions
more concise UI
changed UI a bit for plan. create all does not work yet.
fixes for small screen devices
Added search to trip
added back search of GPS and address
changed weather screen to black
should not add VOT to radial based search
more changes, and now design complete with functionality except UDW and
without KML/GPX plans
More changes to make it at par with last plan
overhaul of Plan
overhaul of Plan
latest html for plan
added plan html, and weather html file.
updated help for TFR
5.9.1
fixed a bug in cycle expiry check
fixed a critical bug for 5.9.0
5.8.9 release
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
fixed cycle algo
Update readme.txt
fixed a bad cycle calculation algorithm. was going to cause issues next
cycle 1501
moved plan buttons, and added ability to add points in plan.
readying 5.8.8
saving of hotel selections
minor change
added cycle range
fix a crash
added hotels from expedia in trip
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare.git
1 crash bug fix, and allow zoom in help
Correct divide by zero fault if the runway bitmap is zero in width - not a normal condition.
removed french. it is quite old
5.8.7
added more metrics
increase mem again, and adding stats
removed hotwire for adding expedia
hotwire wont work due to flash not working in webview. checking in for
completeness
auto filling hotwire forms
more changes for better hotel interface
now works with destination
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare.git
added trip view
Merge pull request #106 from Fly4TheKing/master

Change tracks from DKGRAY to CYAN
Change tracks from DKGRAY to CYAN

Track was nearly indistinguishible from highways on sectional charts.
added placeholder for trip
auto override of auto brightness
removed zoom code, added brightness trings
added brightness control because its important in various flight
conditions
Ensure that the bitmap icon for the runway extension is no larger than 1/3 the size of min dimension of the display device.
urgent zoom fix and 5.8.6
5.8.5
bunch of zooming issues fixed in pinch zoom
replaced togglebutton with custom two state button
added IFR area charts
Plan passage back to same algo based on distance
Hook in the volume +- control to do zooming of the charts and plates.
fixed a crash on possible app exit
changed videos to apps4av account in help
fixed a zoom issue
5.8.4
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare.git
now ignoring ADSB time for traffic
A bit of code optimization and cleanup.
Use only width and height to determine display orientation.
more zoom in
fixed a tile display orientation issue although it will not change
anything as tile display is square
When screen orientation is set to SENSOR, the top status lines were being drawn incorrectly in some orientations
backed out last commit

5.8.3
fixed passing in sim mode
hiding led from toggle button to reclaim some space. led does not show n many platforms anyway
some button size decreases in plan and lists
Add GPS method to convert positions to DD MM SS.SSSS format.
Add ability for shadowtext to position text relative to a defined quadrant about the specified center point. This will be utilized for intelligent waypoint labeling.
Hopefully the final (for now) tweaks to the plan tab layout
removed extra text view on list save
fixed check lists layout
modified check lists icon of saved lists
modified check lists and cosmetic change to plans
Wire up the drawer actions
Wire up the next/prev waypoint buttons
Auto hide the keyboard when some actions complete
Clean up some prompts
added plan drawer better layout
added plan drawer
added plan drawer
make list look like plan
layout for advance and regress of active waypoint
Refactor PlanActivity - no functionality changes, optimization and clarity only
fixed a bad string in plates
Implement delete functionality for external flight plans.
added option to disable rubber banding
independently selects GPS position source
fix of problem reported by TV
5.8.2
Keep "Map" for now.
Add configuration ability to the bottom tab bar. Each tab except "Chart" on the left can be selectively enabled/disabled. It is accessed via the Preferences/Display/Tab Bar Content configuration page.
fix of plan rferesh bug
merge of externalflightplan for GPX flight plan import. 5.8.1 release.
merge of externalflightplan for GPX flight plan import. 5.8.1 release.
moved GPS tab to preferences
improved adsb traffic drawing
improved adsb traffic drawing
timer now a button
help file update
minor changes with timer color
added chronometer to plates
game tfrs added
added a class for game tfr areas
next release 5.7.9
dialog crash bugs fixed (window token invalid).
5.7.8
give user ability to show his own geotag ahead of downloaded geotag
only certain users allowed to submit
5.7.7
5.7.7
change of comment for sharing
now drawing plate tagged confirmation on plate view
added reporting mechnisms. removed mass tagging buttons
added reporting mechnisms. removed mass tagging buttons
added controls for submitting info to georef
change of icon
ability to download geotagged plates.
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
added distance clause for point passage
Correct a compiler error due to moved class.
Move the distance ring drawing code to inside that instrument class.
Move the DR class to the instruments package.
Refactoring only, no change in any behavior (other than should be faster drawing)
Fix an edge case bug dealing with track up and canvas rotation
User defined waypoints were not displayed correctly when in track up mode.
5.7.6
can now read CIFP from 1409
now users can tag plates with one dimension
Revert "Save the state of "TrackUp" vs "NorthUp" in preferences"

This reverts commit 440ca973e283b17dfc450fa6c01cfb2b4c00a260.
Save the state of "TrackUp" vs "NorthUp" in preferences
5.7.5
5.7.5
fixed plate zooming in for tagging better
could not solve the change of pan on scale on plates activity. fixing it makes pan at zoom * pan making hard to tag points with precision
fixed plate zooming
fixed plate zooming
Fix possible crash when parsing files for waypoints related to directory being set as a file.
fixed a bug in plate tagging
Correct potential crash if the name or description of a user defined waypoint is not in the formatted file and results in being NULL.
release 5.7.4
about to release 5.7.4
some more fixes
bunch of verification
sanity check
5.7.4
added GPS and onstacle based tagging
added clear all and other bug fixes
fixed crash bug
added share all and 5.7.3
fix of several reported bugs
5.7.2
fixed a few bugs with various things.
added sharing of plates tagging
release 5.7.1. minor change before release
release 5.7.1. minor change to show which plate is tagged
release 5.7.1
Change the angular difference from 3 to 15 degrees. 3 is way to much clutter. 15 gives 24 samples per 360 deg turn
plates tagged now show up
plates tagged now show up
Show the status lines last so they are over top of any other display item
limiting what can be geotagged
fixed some bugs in plates tagging
added geo tag of plates
fixed Nexrad. Temporary fix.
fixed Nexrad. Temporary fix.
fixed Nexrad. Temporary fix.
Move userDefinedWaypoints to its own namespace for clarity
Refactor classes for better encapsulation
Minor tweaks to the factory base - further abstraction via the UDWParser base class
Add support for GPX formatted data.
Add placeholder for CSV formatted data.
Move the UDW description to the resource file due to it being displayed to the user at various times
added help for KML. 5.7.0
Display a generic identifier/title as the description of the waypoint, not the "description" field from the KML content.
Limit the number of UDW points to a hard coded 100 for now.
Minor tweek to force the UDWs to reload when the config directory changes.
Add concept of user defined waypoints. This is done via a class that scans a configured directory area for files that will be parsed in order to extract names/lat/lon of a waypoint. Initial support is for KML from GoogleEarth, implementation allows the simple addition of CSV, TXT etc via providing the class to the base factory.
Pulled shadowText handling out of LocationView into its own class to make it accessible to more parts of the code. No functionality change.
New ShadowText.java file/class
Correct a couple of minor painting issues.
Minor alterations to some configuration items.
FIxed crash. 5.6.9 release
5.6.8 release
fixed altitude from ADSB receivers when NMEA is on
added writing on plates
more bug fixes
bug fix
more fixes to bring info lines to plates
added fire and smoke chart
added info lines to plates
added sensor based orientation
added more weather charts
fixed a crash reported by TV
generalizing infolines
For an ETE that's less than 1 hr, display it as MM.SS. For ETE's >= 1hr, show as HH:MM
5.6.7. fixed download bug
fixed TFR download issue
5.6.6.
fix in Plan rubberbanding
fixed a warning
fixed typo in strings
reduced adsb traffic timeout
added ability to download previous and next chart cycles
http can hang during download cancel on input.close() causing confusing behavior. fixed
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
added new charts and changed adsb traffic to enabled by default
Refactoring only - break the VSI logic out of "LocationView" and into its own class in the instruments area. Completed flight testing.
Changes to allow the location icon to be more open ended - beyond airplane/helicopter
Add canard icons.
fixed a crash bug 5.6.5
5.6.4. Fixed bugs introduced in the last release. More zoom in for plates. Added option to calculate ETA without realtive bearing
plan algorithm improved. 5.6.3
fixed a crash bug, and added more translations from franco
arranging plates in type order
fixed adsb traffic cachce for more entries
fixed strings and database find location
removed de translation
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
fixed zip file directory entries issue
Another minor edit since the display field is large enough to show distance as XX.Xnm
Test should have been >=
If distance to destination is less than 10 units, then display it in the X.X format to see fractional as we get closer.
5.6.2
Merge pull request #82 from rasii/flightPathReq

Added Flight Path Required.
fixed a crash
Added Flight Path Required.
some more improvements to rubber band, and weather screen.
5.6.1 ready,
added more charts. 5.6.1 ready
rubberband improvement
improved rubberbanding
added rubberbanding
minor changes in area and last
5.6.0. release
5.6.0.
5.6.0. a few changes related to layout
plates fill the screen on center button
fixed the issue where switch between plates causes pan change
added grabber by TV, rearranged Plan.
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
some changes
some changes
Added Kitkat+ default external folder option, changed runway externsions length to DPI. Faster downloads with new server.
runway extensions length now depends on DPI
5.5.8
5.5.7
some more completeness to ads screen
some other changes to add Ads activity, and improve check list more
some other changes to add Ads activity, and improve check list more
5.5.6 release with lists
can import check lists now which make like much easier
more changes to check lists for user friendliness
more input friendliness with lists
more fixes to check lists
removed spanish
added checklists
The single apostrophe needs a preceding '\' character in the resource string file.
Match English version. Also corrected few typos
Map jumpiness fixed. 5.5.5
check marks on charts now stay.
5.5.4
some more map jumpiness improvement
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
some improvements in map jumpiness. zoom still has jumpy behavior, but pan is now ok
Only update the last known gps fix if the save to the tracks file is successful.
some rearrangement of prefs
now support download resume
5.5.3
added best runway wind components
added best runway for landing based on wind
fixed a reported plan delete bug
added density altitude
removed support lib
5.5.2
removed GCM. I hate GCM now.
fix for GPRMB
fixed a crash bug in plan. added autopilot GPRMB support, added full screen plate view that will be used later for geotagging of plates.
changed the message for register as JW said.
fixed a GCM crash reported
final message for 5.4.9
more appropriate language and alignment for register
moved logging to UI thread
update to privacy policy and buttons
final prep for 5.4.9
online signup now mandatory
added web.png
merge long press on main tab
Merge branch 'modLongPress' of https://github.com/rasii/avare
help update
AS merge
final online addition
change of button locations
draw erase button was hard to find. its now visible
added cloud service
Give user double "slop" when doing long press.
Begin closest airport search as soon as the user presses down, stop the
search if they lift off or move far enough to get out of the slop area.
Enhance the rangeCheck() method to ensure the nSelectedIndex being set is in range against the available list of options.
5.4.8. merge from rasii VOR request
Merge pull request #59 from rasii/issue52

Plan NDB appears to be selected instead of VOR when both have same ID
delete caused exception on a phone
fixed a reported bug
5.4.6
removed database concurrent access during database update
Merge pull request #56 from rasii/vsrChanges

Changes to Infolines::Vertical Speed Indicator
Change "Descent Rate to Destination" to "Vertical Speed Required" since
this really isn't a VSI.
Allow VSR to be displayed beyond 30 miles to destination.
Change sign from always + to + or - (- indicates you need to go down).
5.4.5
fixed update bug
Plan NDB appears to be selected instead of VOR when both have same ID
Merge pull request #58 from rasii/afdAirportSpinner

Added Airport Spinner to A/FD view.
Added Airport Spinner to A/FD view.
5.4.4
Merge pull request #57 from rasii/platesChange

Switch from ArrayAdapter to ArrayList to fix Night Mode issue.
Switch from ArrayAdapter to ArrayList to fix Night Mode issue.
The display string for "Instrumentation" needs to come from the resource string file.
changed prefs from Ron
Ensure the distance tape display paint object is left aligned. The status line text "Simulation" or "GPS Lost" messages were right aligning the paint object causing the text to shift left by 2 characters.
Merge pull request #54 from rasii/platesChange

Fix issue when changing airport to <Nearest> and it doesn't have plates.
Fix issue when changing airport to <Nearest> and it doesn't have plates.
The plates for the wrong airport could be displayed.
merge from edge tape and preference to enable it. 5.4.3
merge from edge tape and preference to enable it. 5.4.3
Merge pull request #53 from rasii/platesChange

Removed Spinners from Plates and added <Destination> and <Nearest>
Removed Spinners from Plates and added <Destination> and <Nearest>
Merge pull request #50 from rasii/FixCommaInFind

Fix problem with comma in "address," Find field and share from Google Maps
Fix problem with comma in "address," Find field and share from Google
Maps.
Merge pull request #49 from rasii/fixFindClosestAirport

Fix DatabaseHelper.findClosestAirportID bug
TV's help checkin
Fix issue where findClosestAirport might return the wrong airport if
multiple airports were within the 0.001 criteria.
Added correctionFactor to distance calc as described here:
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3695224/android-sqlite-getting-nearest-locations-with-latitude-and-longitude
5.4.2
Merge pull request #48 from rasii/testing

Fix animation issue on Nearest Tab with airport that doesn't have plates...
Merge pull request #47 from rasii/removePlatesBtnFromList

Remove plates button from airport list
Fix animation issue on Nearest Tab with airport that doesn't have plates.
Removed one to many lines with last commit.
Remove plates button from airport list
simple fix
commit missin file
separate elevation tile from tilemap
merge from ras2
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
merge from ras2
Update strings.xml
cosmetic change
fixed altitude
moved glide ratio out of near. 5.4.1 ready
tells user to download maps when they zoom and no tiles found
fixed a fuel overwrite on Near, merged animate of label button from ras2, fixed jumpy Map
fixed CDI color bug
showCDI initial state was not matching. fixed.
release 5.4.0 after crash "fix"
one more fix to plan
fix Plan, and update help
Add new status line field - Freq Next. Displays the destination radio frequency for TWR (if available), or CTAF.
drawShadowedText was not positioning the box/text correctly in the vertical. A minor annoyance, but I finally fixed it.
Move updating of GPS data for various instruments to the background service. This allows updates to happen when not on the main chart screen.
Issue #44
fixed the CDI to auto switch to LOC near the airport
fix CDI
fix VASI
allow planning in sim mode.
first plan point is never a destination
draw plan in sim mode, and not inactivate when adding to it from search, map
added back radar time
fixed nexrad and traffic time for ADSB. Now nexrad hides if older than 2 hours
Correct the needle deflection direction for the VDI
changes merged from rasii
Fix a couple of TRACK_UP bugs for CDI/VDI and distance rings labels.
Add CDI/VDI operation to the help file.
Corrected a couple of minor issues in the help file.
moved hobbsMeter to instruments
deleted some files not needed. 5.3.8
moved hobbsMeter to instruments
added when to show vnav bars
Correct spelling mistake in the string "ShowCDISummary"
Change CDI correction needle offset direction 
Move VDI to right side of display
Only display CDI/VDI if we have GPS lock
CDI now disappears with touch
updated help for next release.
merge from CDI
fixed a reported bug with gps dest not recognized as gps
changing tabs will not change pan anymore
fixed nam mos. bugs in android webview!
5.3.8 beta.
now ability to set the glide ratio
added math to find airports within glide distance
added safety features and runway lengths to nearest list
add altitude to the adsb traffic
now touch to hide menu
added forecast
now menu stays om map screen
animation made global
new app cycle. new way to draw shape of track with circles at waypoints.
heading to track
back to eclipse
back to eclipse
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
made nexrad trasparent
Remove an unused parameter from the setTracks method call.
Increase the default max tracking point interval time to 30sec - flying with this setting yields a less cluttered KML file when in steady state flight.
Merge pull request #37 from steven676/patch-1

Allow installation on devices without GPS/network location
specifying versions in 2 locations is not acceptable. removed from build.gradle. If this can be done from one location, then its acceptable
Changed text for database download.
Merge pull request #36 from damccull/SideBySideInstall

Add -DEBUG suffix to the version name. Changes to build.gradle to support
Allow installation on devices without GPS/network location 

The Google Play Store interprets the permissions ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION and ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION as implying that GPS and network location are required, respectively.  With the External I/O plugin installed, though, Avare is useful on devices without GPS, so we should specify that these hardware features are not required.
Add -DEBUG suffix to the version name. Changes to build.gradle to support.
misc. small fixes.
giving a alert dialog when no database
fixed radial/distance discrepency
Merge pull request #35 from damccull/SideBySideInstall

Side by side install
Bug #022.
Ensure tracks file is properly closed on application exit.
Minor tweaks to the KML file writing logic to lessen its size. 
Correct an altitude change bug. 
Remove some dead code. 
Clean up some studio warnings.
Build the available field list to allow only fields not currently in use to be shown. Add check to ensure that if a field is not on the visible display, it is removed from the definition so as to allow it to be selected in a different location.
Added resources to visually differentiate debug build.
Moved app_name string to its own file so we can overlay it with a string from debug resources
Removed app_name string from translations because it is not different from default language.
Allow debug package side-by-side installation with release package.

* Modify build.gradle to add ".debug" to the package name
* Modify layout/plan.xml to change the xmlns of custom control so gradle will insert the appropriate package name during each type's build.
5.3.6
Added app/app.iml to gitignore and removed from repo
Merge pull request #33 from damccull/master

Removed generated files from repo and updated gitignore. Updated buildtools version to 19.0.1
Updated to newest build tools 19.0.1
Added app/build and .gradle to gitignore.
Removed app/build and .gradle from repo.
now avare is a android studio project
now avare is a android studio project
Merge pull request #31 from damccull/master

Another pull request
fix for a crash bug
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
now plan does not need prefixes
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
added missing file Radial.java
Add some ignores for Android Studio files to the .gitignore.
3.5.5.
Ability to enter single line flight plans. minor fix. releasing
3.5.5.
Ability to enter single line flight plans
nwo can fly radials
5.3.4, new nexrad method
5.3.3
next release 5.3.2 with nexrad
added internet based radar
5.3.1
dynamic fields now permanent
dynamic fields now permanent
plan improved
missing files
merge from preferencetabwork
5.3.0. with SUA, and track line thicker
trasparent border in plan
improved SAA
added SUA
minor borders in plan
5.2.9
fixed plan handling
grabber icon not required
fpm now part of alt
5.2.8. merge from KML-Tweaks, start up no GPS now defualts to Kentucky. Fixed weather/TFR delete.
release 5.2.7
added traffic.
added traffic.
added traffic
fixed adsb exclusion of internet weather
fixed conus nexrad
only RNAV for now
fixed a sign issue
added geo referenced RNAV plates
sqlite open helper's help removed
next release 5.2.6. adsb released.
Update strings.xml
added ADSB weather sweep method
completed ADSB
more adsb weather
fixed long interger bug in time
metar taf pireps winds
max size added
added time to discard old nexrad
regional nexrad now shows
nexrad bitmaps in avare now
more zoom improvement 5.2.5.
more drawing improvements in zoom.5.2.4
more drawing improvements in zoom
next release 5.2.3
auto scale
merge from stevecb2 branch
changed grabber icon
added AK ELUS/EHUS charts
now GPS locked everywhere in the app
added Zulu time
simple warning fix for bitmap
next release 5.2.2
fixed bug with database access and black screen
next release 5.2.1
next release 5.2.0
fixed a crash bug, fixed text chop off in pop out
removed variation calculation
5.1.9
fixed elevation bug. 5.1.8
next release 5.1.7
further fixed agl
made text better for agl
fixed AGL
AGL fixed crash
AGL added.
added vertical speed glide slope
added vertical descent/ascend speed. fixed a minor issue with search text box test clearing
release 5.1.6
now sending data out to BT devices
added bidirectional interface for plugins
added missing files
merge from dpi branch jm
next release
interface now json for easier parsing
added prefs from preftabswork branch
misc small fixes. also added reverse portrait and reverse landscape orientations in prefs
added options from tracksRequests
removed silly line notch on top of tfr/weather shapes
#15: Distance and speed rings can be switched on and drawn independently from one another.
GPS disabled warning removed
now receiving and updating adsb position
added aidl interface for helper app
removed adsb from avare
fixed headers
fixed headers
release 5.1.4
Added emailing KML, and preferences now back to ListPreferences because summary was hidden
fixed a crash with distance ring
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
drawing tracks with shape instead of calling new and re-implementing the shape code
Change the scaling threshold values to better align to the static rings at the default zoom factor.
merged from DistanceRingsV2
added 4th ring
Completed merge change for flight tracks.
Removed some configuration options to make it less busy.
removed seconds from the hobbs timer
misc small fixes
added KML from tracks branch
added KML from tracks branch
now same frequenceis are merged
merged from branch flight_timer. needs testing
merge from distance_rings branch. also added km.
next release 5.1.3
next release 5.1.2
added way to browse for folder to store charts
5.1.1, merged changes from branch preferencetabwork
fixed unable to see TAC, fixed Pattern altitude
release 5.1.0
release 5.1.0
fixed a bitmap size issue causing plane to appear of center
delete not works for databases and weather and tfr
fixed runway paint issue
changed nochart to simple gray. easier to see shapes on it
fixed ASOS linkify, fixed dangling ASOS frequencies in COMM, fixed NONE severity sigmets/airmets.
added runway pattern code from branch shadeRunwayPattern
added missing file
added COMM to popout screen
fixed regex from jm
merge from awos branch
added download failure cause
wind now decoded
removed path for chart store, and added distances for weather
magenta not a good color for shape
added winds/temp aloft
added winds/temp aloft
added a separate group for weather
fixed a problem with db
weather now comes from database. this is so much better
fixed a few things suggested by JW
added back route weather
removed adsb support due to lack of ability to test
minor changes
mets are not selectable from prefs
draws convective sigmets
new help file from JW
cache of weather updated with air/sig mets
a little more layout arrangement
fixed tfr
removed WX screen cause its on main view now
more integration of weather screen
now a new layout with ability to show weather
fixed weather airport with adding K
metar cache now fully functional
added metar so can use it to develop weather layout
added airport report parser. use this as example do parse other weather
added code to download weather from download menu
merge from branch jm
fixed dbase
new location of charts
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
changed dbnames
Test commit
with new database scheme
5.0.9
5.0.8. Finished continental zoom.
added continental scale zoom out
this helps set the list updated
added fix for plate name of any extension
next release 5.0.7
next release 5.0.6
fixed pirep
fixed plan entry move
changing anything in plan will deactivate it
A little rearrangement of plan
change chart colors
added move function to plan list
checked in adsb integration. not sure if this will cause issues with WIFI.
changed DOM to SAX. More memory optimizations.
removed weather from nearest, and added elevation
more drawing optimization
deleted weather cahce and removed a lot of async tasks so we do not hang when network is down
complete integration of adsb with code
next release is png with 150 dpi plates
no test file
jpg
can draw nexrad now
can draw nexrad now
constant image name
5.0.5 release
black bg is now default. fixed height of text in landscape mode
fixed layout of mapview
fixed a bug in id413
added heli charts
fixed drawing
added ADSB to avare
5.0.2
Now menu brings out setting that need quick change
Now menu brings out setting that need quick change
added GDL90 code
5.0.1 Layout changed to bring Pan/Draw button back. Changed WX so METAR/TAF/PIREP can be plain or tranlated, selectable from Preferences.
fixed a few bug noticed in 5.0.0
Update strings.xml
5.0.0 release
bottom up animation
a lot of button arrangements
removed weather images, and fixed a technical bug with location set
added station weather, and added smoke map
changed color of METAR to be not transparent, moved afd around
draw has a clean button now. Dest has a clear button now.
added metar codes, adde search to WX and help
remarks separated
added pirep decode 4.2.8 now
added pirep decode 4.2.8 now
gave up on webcore memory leak error. Now weather only loads current plan
better weather performance on UI thread
4.2.8
now running weather get on async task
decoding all taf codes
next release 4.2.7
4.2.6
added weather
removed network activity from the task
more weather
added weather images
changed colors mostly
improved plan, added ability to store plans,
changed UI looks
improved black area on sides
now finding date of release not requires internet connection. fixed obstruction of chart type
fixed TAC issue and general other missing chart issues. release 4.2.4
release 4.2.3
added chart delete function
added grand canyon chart
release 4.2.2
improvements to plan feature
fixed declination
all directions magnetic
release 4.2.1
Update strings.xml
a few final touches before 4.2.0. Fixed GPS view.
charts segmented properly now. release 4.2.0
new database allows auto chart downloading
can clear the destination. 4.1.10 prepared.
4.1.9 release. fixed a bug
a change for eu charts so lat/lon are not restrcited to NW 4.1.9
scale and pan reset with center button
4.1.8. minor changes
Update strings.xml
4.1.7
4.1.7
4.1.6
added doodle
fixed plates sort order
4.1.5. fixed bug in Plan
fixed database for A/FD, added heli icon, release 4.1.4
changes by JW
fixed A/FD release 4.1.3
releasing 4.1.2
added A/FD picture
finally fixed the elusive slow moving bar bug
4.1.2
added alternate and takeoff minimums. 4.1.2
4.1.2 with more help
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
added shahed relief maps and terrain of all US
Update strings.xml
Update strings.xml
target now android-17. trying to fix compatibility issue, and release 4.1.0
4.0.2
4.0.1.
fixed plan distance
fixed a search bug
4.0.0
fixed customs bug
removed airport diag
fixed download bug
added station passage
fixed some issues with plan
improved planning screen
added palnning UI elements
fix a crash 3.7.6
fix a crash
3.7.5 after update fix
readying 3.7.4
3.7.4
cleared up A/FD more
3.7.3
fixed a lot of issues for 3.7.3. Improved text A/FD
next release 3.7.2
next release 3.7.2
new obstacle symbol
new aircraft symbol
added redundant server
added ability to delete recent destinations
added IFR HE charts. release 3.7.1
3.7.0 release with bug fix
3.7.0 release with bug fix
3.7 release with bug fix
moved UI 3.6.10
releasing 3.6.10
releasing 3.6.9
added terrain for next release 3.6.9
added terrain for next release 3.6.9
added terrain maps
fixed a crash bug 3.6.8
fixed a crash bug
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
3.6.7 release
3.6.7 fixed tearing problem
Update strings.xml
Update strings.xml
3.6.6
added obstacles
night mode complete. release 3.5.6
3.6.5. Legacy project will be forked from here on.
fixed a crash bug reported on 3.6.3
release 3.6.4
released 3.6.3
3.6.3. tile map changes to free up some memory. changes to UI
3.6.3. tile map changes to free up some memory. changes to UI
3.6.2. fixed a afd bug
added night mode
3.6.1 releasing
3.6.0 releasing
lots of changes for 3.6.0.
3.5.10, added ES translation
3.5.10, and added graphical A/FD the green books
3.5.9 release. Fixed a crash
Update strings.xml
chnaged back dialogs
next release 3.5.7
next release 3.5.7
next release 3.5.7
tfr on demand , next release 3.5.6
tfr on demand , next release 3.5.6
tfr on demand now
3.5.5
moved hosting to dreamhost
minor fixes
release 3.5.3
Update res/values-fr/strings.xml
release 3.5.2
release 3.5.1
readying next release 3.5.1
updated help file for 3.5
release 3.5 now
prepare for next release 3.5
next release 3.4.8
added track up albeit pan bug
added track up albeit pan bug
disabled obstacles
a few bug fixes
download button more viewable
minor fix
3.5 release readying. added obstacles. added new colors for visibility. improved yet again, database access methods.
3.4.7 release
now draws two tracks
now draws two tracks
next release
now charts in expandable list. fixed some bug. first step towards plates
fixed a minor exit bug
fixed a nasty crash bug in tile calculation.
removed complete exit. it causes segfault
added some auto download features, added complete exit feature. moved altitude to gps etc.
removed locks from database for faster access
now can enter addresses direct
fixed warning
lots of clean up. and added entering of google maps
changed text color
fixed warnings
added geo destination
added packages
added packages
clean up of text display
corrected headings display to 3 digits
next release 3.4.4
added runway extensions
release 3.4.3 ready
fixed math formula for bearing
Merge branch 'master' of https://github.com/apps4av/avare
great circle course now
Revert "Added ratings bar"

This reverts commit a3b2471acdb32e6be45b9615d1d9fb26b9ee1da4.
Added ratings bar
progress bar now shown in search
preparing for 3.4.3
added some graphics to search list
minor syntax fixes
added navaids and fixes
scaling the aircraft now
3.4.2
orientation portratit by default. 3.4.1
3.4.1
new logo
updated help
search is better now.
fixed query to search by name
removed silly looking destination dialog, replaced by activity with search
gearing for 3.4.1
Revert "help file updated"

This reverts commit acde11e21f34a7d24196cb46f45cc4caa36332af.
help file updated
deleted menu layouts
more cleaning up of menus
more cleaning up of menus
removed menus. replaced with animation
added image processing code that enables live taxi
3.4 ready
added ifr charts ready for 3.4
3.3.2
fixed broken multiple charts
fixed broken multiple charts
now tiles have embedded lon/lat for auto charting. airport diags. no need to geo tag
made more responsive animation by separating it from weather download
made more responsive animation by separating it from weather download
fixed a crash
fixed a crash
change of some text
fixed double touch continuous movement of params. added animation to nearest. fixed some text in prefs
bad name of file changed. readying for 3.3 release
show all other facilities too
now double touch can be used as plotter, destination can be input via long press
fix is 10 of a mile distance to nearest
improvement to download of charts, and added miles/knots. database is now opened for every transaction
now on faa data
new directory
new french strings and new help
readying 3.3 with WAC charts
fixed a crash in gps for device that do not have gps
fixed a crash reported on store
fixed a crash reported on store
taf appendd to metar
3.2.5
more concurrent mod remove
more verbosity, gps callback list now gaurded with concurrent mod. destination set input rate now limited.
release candidate 3.2.5
moved airport dia to service so switching to it is quicker
greatly reduced metar fetch data rate. fixed nearest airport update time
airport dia now 1/4 size
tiles now align with proper orientation. fixed a timer bug
metar text also full width
fixed bug that tiles stay after download
fixed bug that tiles stay after download
many changes. biggest change is drawing optimization. auto determine the optimum screen size for all devices. save 2x memory by going to RGB565. weather color change. download bug chart not update bug exists.
heap limit detection not accurate
heap limit detection not accurate
no need to restart with map size change now
next release
destination dia not found dialog
allow backup
for next release
added donate option paypal
added screen sizes. added donate option
Merge pull request #1 from mnbob81/patch-1

Make metar popup full width of display
Make metar popup full width of display

- Make the location popup the full width of device display
- .trim() popup text
next release after download made better
some bug fixes where blinking gps in simu. also downloads charts when first boots
3.2.1 to release
new help
gps fix for blinking
new help, french strings, and gps fixes
fixed track line and moved error text below
fixed track line and moved error text below
catching backspace now. dest now set from nearest.
final touches before next release
fix weather display
fix weather display
lots of bug fixes with new layout. gps fix, screen timeout fix, destination box fix, geotag box fix.
name changes
gps fix to start stop from service
removed some warnings from lint. reduced size of calibrate box
fine display of lat lon for marking
changed tab height based on screen resolution. fixed a new gps module crash
UI re-design with tabhost. major change to presentation.
geo referenced taxi feature complete. needs test. added gps interface so that all activities can use a common gps interface
better plates state machine
changes of icons and better placement of afd
now calibration stored in preferences.
now plates show calibration. next need to save and retreive
now plates show
plates acquire complete. now to show gps on top
plates will now be shown in their own activity. PDF to jpeg conversion complete for ADs
cleaned up draw and updated help
cleaned up draw and updated help
added header
initial check in in github
Initial commit
